[docs] Rewrite the main expo-updates library doc (#29275)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/updates.mdx

---
title: Updates

> description: A library that enables your app to manage remote updates to your application code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A package that enables your app to manage remote updates to your application code.
```

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { YesIcon, NoIcon } from '~/ui/components/DocIcons';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { GithubIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';

> ## Installation and Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Installation and configuration
```

Whether we decide to keep this here, I'd still suggest not capitalizing the word "configuration" as per our [writing style guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#headings)

> `expo-updates` is a library that enables your app to manage remote updates to your application code. It communicates with the configured remote update service to get information about available updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`expo-updates` is a package that enables your app to manage remote updates to your application code. It communicates with the configured remote update service to get information about available updates.
```

[EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction) is a hosted service that manages and serves updates, and includes tools to simplify installation and configuration of the `expo-updates` library. To get started with EAS Update, follow the instructions in the [Get started](/eas-update/getting-started/) guide.

It is also possible to configure this library manually in cases where native code is configured manually or use of a different remote update service is required.

<Collapsible summary="Manual installation and configuration">

<APIInstallSection hideBareInstructions={true} />

> If you're installing this library in a [bare React Native app](/bare/overview/) or a generic app with manually configured native code, follow these [installation instructions](/bare/installing-updates/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're installing this package in a [bare React Native app](/bare/overview/) or a generic app with manually configured native code, follow these [installation instructions](/bare/installing-updates/).
```

> If using [app config](/workflow/configuration/) for configuration, this library can be configured by setting at least the following app config properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using [app config](/workflow/configuration/) for configuration, this package can be configured by setting at least the following app config properties:
```

- [`updates.url`](/versions/latest/config/app/#updates): a URL of a remote service implementing the [Expo Updates protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1/)
- [`runtimeVersion`](/versions/latest/config/app/#runtimeversion): a [runtime version](/eas-update/runtime-versions/)

The remote service must implement the [Expo Updates protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1/). [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction) implements this protocol for you, and it is also possible to use this library with a custom server.

<BoxLink
  title="Custom Expo Updates Server"
  description="Example implementation of a custom server and an app using that server"
  href="https://github.com/expo/custom-expo-updates-server"
  Icon={GithubIcon}
/>

</Collapsible>

### Additional configuration options

> These are build-time configuration options that control the behavior of the library. For most apps, these configuration values can be set in the [app config](/workflow/configuration/) under the [`updates` property](/versions/latest/config/app/#updates).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are build-time configuration options that control the behavior of the package. For most apps, these configuration values can be set in the [app config](/workflow/configuration/) under the [`updates` property](/versions/latest/config/app/#updates).
```

> You can also configure the library in your app's native project files if your project does not use Continuous Native Generation. It is also possible to override the configuration from native code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also configure the package in your app's native project files if your project does not use Continuous Native Generation. It is also possible to override the configuration from native code.
```

| `updates.codeSigningCertificate` | (none)   | <NoIcon />  | `EXUpdatesCodeSigningCertificate` | `expo.modules.updates.CODE_SIGNING_CERTIFICATE`                  | `codeSigningCertificate` |
| `updates.codeSigningMetadata`    | (none)   | <NoIcon />  | `EXUpdatesCodeSigningMetadata`    | `expo.modules.updates.CODE_SIGNING_METADATA`                     | `codeSigningMetadata`    |

## Usage

By default, `expo-updates` checks for updates when the app launches. If an update is available, it downloads the update and applies it the next time the app is restarted. You can tune this startup behavior using the `checkAutomatically` and `fallbackToCacheTimeout` configuration options above.

The library also provides a variety of constants to inspect the current update and functions to customize update behavior from your application code (after startup). For example, one common alternative usage pattern is to manually check for updates after the app has started instead of doing the default check on launch.

<Collapsible summary="Example: Check for updates manually">

You can configure your app to check for updates manually by doing the following steps:

> 1. Set the `checkAutomatically` configuration value to `ON_ERROR_RECOVERY` or `NEVER` to disable the library's default launch behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the `checkAutomatically` configuration value to `ON_ERROR_RECOVERY` or `NEVER` to disable the package's default launch behavior.
```

2. Add the following code to check for available updates, download them, and reload:

    ```jsx App.js
    import { View, Button } from 'react-native';
    import * as Updates from 'expo-updates';

    function App() {
      async function onFetchUpdateAsync() {
        try {
          const update = await Updates.checkForUpdateAsync();

          if (update.isAvailable) {
            await Updates.fetchUpdateAsync();
            await Updates.reloadAsync();
          }
        } catch (error) {
          // You can also add an alert() to see the error message in case of an error when fetching updates.
          alert(`Error fetching latest Expo update: ${error}`);
        }
      }

      return (
        <View>
          <Button title="Fetch update" onPress={onFetchUpdateAsync} />
        </View>
      );
    }
    ```

</Collapsible>

## Testing

> Most of the methods and constants in this library can be used or tested only in release builds. In debug builds, the default behavior is to always load the latest JavaScript from a development server. It is possible to [build a debug version of your app with the same updates behavior as a release build](/eas-update/debug-advanced/#debugging-of-native-code-while-loading-the-app-through-expo-updates). Such an app will not open the latest JavaScript from your development server &mdash; it will load published updates just as a release build does. This may be useful for debugging the behavior of your app when it is not connected to a development server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the methods and constants in this package can be used or tested only in release builds. In debug builds, the default behavior is to always load the latest JavaScript from a development server. It is possible to [build a debug version of your app with the same updates behavior as a release build](/eas-update/debug-advanced/#debugging-of-native-code-while-loading-the-app-through-expo-updates). Such an app will not open the latest JavaScript from your development server &mdash; it will load published updates just as a release build does. This may be useful for debugging the behavior of your app when it is not connected to a development server.
```

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { YesIcon, NoIcon } from '~/ui/components/DocIcons';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { GithubIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';

> ## Installation & Configuration

Author: I had originally removed it since it appears right above it. Still make sense to keep it?
<img width="1140" alt="Screenshot 2024-06-03 at 9 28 40 AM" src="https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/189568/8802509f-3e76-4b2a-9656-5c4113bd6695">

> ## Installation & Configuration

Reviewer 2: I like the thorough description you added in this PR with the changes above:

```md
`expo-updates` is a library that enables your app to manage remote updates to your application code. It communicates with the configured remote update service to get information about available updates.
```

This way, the description helps answer what and why of this library.

`expo-updates` is a library that enables your app to manage remote updates to your application code. It communicates with the configured remote update service to get information about available updates.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Installation and configuration
```

Let's also avoid using symbols as per our writing style guide.

> [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction) is a hosted service that manages and serves updates, and includes tools to simplify installation and configuration of this library. To get started with EAS Update, follow the [Getting Started Guide](/eas-update/getting-started/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction) is a hosted service that manages and serves updates, and includes tools to simplify installation and configuration of `expo-updates` library. Follow the instructions in the [EAS Update Get started](/eas-update/getting-started/) guide.
```

Reviewer 2: I agree this is tough one. I am happy with the changes you've added.

Also, I think if we want to convey that EAS Update is optional, maybe we can rephrase this paragraph and the one following it to convey the same message here. It's often good to start with the most important information but in this case, after judging this, I think an important piece of info is that there are two ways to use this library. So may be it can be rephrased as:

```
There are two ways to configure `expo-updates` library: [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction) and manual.

[EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction) is a hosted service that manages and serves updates, and includes tools to simplify installation and configuration of the `expo-updates` library. To get started with EAS Update, follow the instructions in the [Get started](/eas-update/getting-started/) guide.

Manual configuration is useful when the native code is also configured manually or with a different remote update service.
```

This makes the user aware that there are two different ways without the losing the context you've already added.

Author: Updated once more to simplify.

If you're installing this library in a [bare React Native app](/bare/overview/), follow these [additional installation instructions](/bare/installing-updates/).

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This should come inside the Manual instructions collapsible so we can avoid duplicating info (since this is also used in Manual installation collapsible below).

It is also possible to configure this library manually in cases where native code is configured manually or use of a different remote update service is required.

> <Collapsible summary="Manual installation & configuration">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Collapsible summary="Manual installation and configuration">
```

<APIInstallSection hideBareInstructions={true} />

If you're installing this library in a [bare React Native app](/bare/overview/) or a generic app with manually-configured native code, follow these [installation instructions](/bare/installing-updates/).

> If using [app config](/workflow/configuration/) for configuration, this library can be configured by setting at least the following app config keys:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If using [app config](/workflow/configuration/) for configuration, this library can be configured by setting at least the following app config properties:
```

We prefer to use properties over keys when it comes to app config properties:
![CleanShot 2024-06-03 at 21 36 15@2x](https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/10234615/59cd073b-f2a0-40db-ae7a-87b4dff71dc7)

> - [`updates.url`](/versions/latest/config/app/#updates) - a URL of a remote service implementing the [Expo Updates protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`updates.url`](/versions/latest/config/app/#updates): a URL of a remote service implementing the [Expo Updates protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1/)
```

> - [`runtimeVersion`](/versions/latest/config/app/#runtimeversion) - a [runtime version](/eas-update/runtime-versions/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`runtimeVersion`](/versions/latest/config/app/#runtimeversion): a [runtime version](/eas-update/runtime-versions/)
```

The remote service must implement the [Expo Updates protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1/). [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction) implements this protocol for you, and it is also possible to use this module with a custom server.

<BoxLink
  title="Custom Expo Updates Server"
  description="Example implementation of a custom server and an app using that server"
  href="https://github.com/expo/custom-expo-updates-server"
  Icon={GithubIcon}
/>

</Collapsible>

### Additional configuration options

These are build-time configuration options that control the behavior of the module. For most apps, these configuration values can be set in the [app config](/workflow/configuration/) under the [`updates` field](/versions/latest/config/app/#updates).

> You can also configure the module in your app's native project files if your project does not use Continuous Native Generation. It is also possible to override the configuration from native code.

Author: @ide - going to change back to "library" everywhere, re: https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/29275#discussion_r1623266005

not a problem at all, just want to raise in case we want to change the style guide

> You can also configure the module in your app's native project files if your project does not use Continuous Native Generation. It is also possible to override the configuration from native code.

Reviewer: Ok I withdraw my suggestion to use "package"... will remember to use "library" going forward 😄

> You can also configure the module in your app's native project files if your project does not use Continuous Native Generation. It is also possible to override the configuration from native code.

Reviewer 3: Let's follow the style guide!

| `updates.requestHeaders`         | (none)   | <NoIcon />  | `EXUpdatesRequestHeaders`         | `expo.modules.updates.UPDATES_CONFIGURATION_REQUEST_HEADERS_KEY` | `requestHeaders`         |
| `runtimeVersion`                 | (none)   | <YesIcon /> | `EXUpdatesRuntimeVersion`         | `expo.modules.updates.EXPO_RUNTIME_VERSION`                      | `runtimeVersion`         |
| `updates.checkAutomatically`     | `ALWAYS` | <NoIcon />  | `EXUpdatesCheckOnLaunch`          | `expo.modules.updates.EXPO_UPDATES_CHECK_ON_LAUNCH`              | `checkOnLaunch`          |
| `updates.fallbackToCacheTimeout` | `0`      | <NoIcon />  | `EXUpdatesLaunchWaitMs`           | `expo.modules.updates.EXPO_UPDATES_LAUNCH_WAIT_MS`               | `launchWaitMs`           |
| `updates.codeSigningCertificate` | (none)   | <NoIcon />  | `EXUpdatesCodeSigningCertificate` | `expo.modules.updates.CODE_SIGNING_CERTIFICATE`                  | `codeSigningCertificate` |
| `updates.codeSigningMetadata`    | (none)   | <NoIcon />  | `EXUpdatesCodeSigningMetadata`    | `expo.modules.updates.CODE_SIGNING_METADATA`                     | `codeSigningMetadata`    |

## Usage

> By default, the module will check for updates when the app launches. If an update is available, it will download the update and apply it the next time the app is restarted. You can tune this startup behavior using the `checkAutomatically` and `fallbackToCacheTimeout` configuration options.

Author: That anchor link is a exported constant whereas we want to reference the configuration option. Keeping that part as-is.

> By default, the module will check for updates when the app launches. If an update is available, it will download the update and apply it the next time the app is restarted. You can tune this startup behavior using the `checkAutomatically` and `fallbackToCacheTimeout` configuration options.

Reviewer 2: Got it, thanks for the context! In that case let's leave the anchor link out of this.

        }
      }

      return (
        <View>
          <Button title="Fetch update" onPress={onFetchUpdateAsync} />
        </View>
      );
    }
    ```

</Collapsible>

## Testing

Most of the methods and constants in this module can be used or tested only in release builds. In debug builds, the default behavior is to always load the latest JavaScript from a development server. It is possible to [build a debug version of your app with the same updates behavior as a release build](/eas-update/debug-advanced/#debugging-of-native-code-while-loading-the-app-through-expo-updates). Such an app will not open the latest JavaScript from your development server &mdash; it will load published updates just as a release build does. This may be useful for debugging the behavior of your app when it is not connected to a development server.

**To test the content of an update in a development build**, run [`eas update`](/eas-update/introduction) and then browse to the update in your development build. Note that this only simulates what an update will look like in your app, and most of the [Updates API](#api) is unavailable when running in a development build.

> **To test updates in a release build**, you can create a [**.apk**](/build-reference/apk) or a [simulator build](/build-reference/simulators), or make a release build locally with `npx expo run:android --variant release` and `npx expo run:ios --configuration Release` (you don't need to submit this build to the store to test). The full [Updates API](#api) is available in a release build.

Reviewer 2: I feel we should link to the P[ublish an update guide](http://docs.expo.dev-pr-29275.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/eas-update/publish/) (and if required update that guide). It's okay to introduce the conceptual usage info but I don't think the context is clear to the first timer/unfamiliar developer who wants to use this library

| `ERR_UPDATES_RELOAD`              | An error occurred when trying to reload the application and it could not be reloaded. For bare workflow apps, double check the setup steps for this module to ensure it has been installed correctly and the proper native initialization methods are called. |
| `ERR_UPDATES_CHECK`               | An unexpected error occurred when trying to check for new updates. Check the error message for more information.                                                                                                                                              |
| `ERR_UPDATES_FETCH`               | An unexpected error occurred when trying to fetch a new update. Check the error message for more information.                                                                                                                                                 |
| `ERR_UPDATES_READ_LOGS`           | An unexpected error occurred when trying to read log entries. Check the error message for more information.                                                                                                                                                   |

> | `ERR_NOT_AVAILABLE_IN_DEV_CLIENT` | A method is not available when running in a development client. To test this method a release build should be used.                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `ERR_NOT_AVAILABLE_IN_DEV_CLIENT` | A method is not available when running in a development build. To test this method a release build should be used.                                                                                                                                           |
```
